Update stack and project organization with examples (#1124)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/docs/guides/organizing-projects-stacks/_index.md

Stacks have associated metadata in the form of name/value tags. You can assign custom tags to stacks (when logged into the [Pulumi Service backend]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/state" >}})) to customize how stacks are listed in the [Pulumi Service](https://app.pulumi.com). For example, if you have many projects with separate stacks for production, staging, and testing environments, it may be useful to group stacks by environment instead of by project. To do this, you could assign a custom `environment` tag to each stack, assigning a value of `production` to each production stack, `staging` to each staging stack, etc. Then in the Pulumi Service, you'll be able to group stacks by `Tag: environment`. For more information, see [Stack tags]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/stack#stack-tags" >}}).

> ## Example

Author: hmm. very good point. Honestly, part of what we have to decide is if the Crosswalk for Kubernetes still exists and if we want to even include it/link to it on this page (which would solve this problem)

@aaronkao what do you think? I kind of think we just remove the Crosswalk link/example based on other things we are considering, but I was trying to slightly avoid deleting content without checking.

> ## Example

Author: Aaron and I discussed and we will keep the crosswalk link in for now; I will add an h3 for the example as suggested!

> In practice, it's common to have a combination of approaches. This is an example of an orgaizational setup that leverages several different approaches to provide the most functionality and flexibility possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, it's common to have a combination of approaches. Let's build an example of an organizational setup that leverages several different approaches to provide the most functionality and flexibility possible.
```

Reviewer: The text reads like there's example code to go in here. Was that intentional?

Author: i've been debating that. this page is already really long, so I was leery about adding example code, especially since it could be different depending on hyperscalers, etc.

> We start with a central base "infrastructure" project, which contains things that are common across multiple services (or perhaps even your entire organization!) This can include resources like Azure Resource Groups or AWS VPCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start with a central base "infrastructure" project, which contains things that are common across multiple services (or perhaps even your entire organization!). This project can include resources like Azure Resource Groups or AWS VPCs.
```

> Within this project, we create stacks for each unique configuration (often times stacks related to SDLC environments like dev, staging, and production). These stacks are often deployed independently of each other, and are often deployed in different regions. To use a metaphor, our Pulumi program code defines the shape of our dial, and the configuration in the different stack configuration files (e.g. `Pulumi.dev.yaml`, `Pulumi.staging.yaml`, `Pulumi.prod.yaml`) defines the actual dial setting. These "dial settings" might include things like subscription IDs, regions, etc, that are specific to that environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this project, we create stacks for each unique configuration (often times stacks are related to SDLC environments like dev, staging, and production). These stacks are often deployed independently of each other and are often deployed in different regions. To use a metaphor, our Pulumi program code defines the shape of our dial, and the configuration in the different stack configuration files (e.g., `Pulumi.dev.yaml`, `Pulumi.staging.yaml`, `Pulumi.prod.yaml`) defines the actual dial setting. These "dial settings" might include things like subscription IDs, regions, etc. that are specific to that environment.
```

This project lays down our base infrastructure. One of the advantages to keeping this separate is there is likely a limited number of users we want to be able to deploy these things; not every indvidual team needs to be able to do this.

> Now that we have our base infrastructure, we can create a separate Pulumi project per application or service, for its deployment and configuration - which will include all the resources that the service needs (which are not provided by the base infrasturcture project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have our base infrastructure, we can create a separate Pulumi project per application or service for each one's deployment and configuration that will include all the resources that the service needs, which are not provided by the base infrastructure project.
```

> Our example service is made up of an API and a database (RDS, CosmosDB, etc). Our Pulumi program for the project defines the resources for the API, and the database, and it can also deploy the actual code as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our example service is made up of an API and a database (RDS, CosmosDB, etc.). Our Pulumi program for the project defines the resources for the API and the database, and it can also deploy the actual code, as well.
```

> It's generally a good practice to keep our projects on the smaller side, as this helps reduce the "blast radius" of a deployment (aka the Micro-Stacks model described earlier).

Reviewer: Also, I'd suggest removing "blast radius" in favor of another word or phrase as it's a violent phrase. 

```suggestion
It's generally a good practice to keep our projects on the smaller side as this helps reduce the effect of a deployment (i.e., the micro-stacks model described earlier).
```

Author: ooh yeah. ty

> It's generally a good practice to keep our projects on the smaller side as this helps reduce the effect of a deployment (i.e., the micro-stacks model described earlier).

Reviewer 2: I think we need to elaborate here. When I advise customers, I talk about two things:

- Rate of change
- Blast radius

It might be worth a separate sub page on these topics

Author: for the record, I removed the term "blast radius" per @nimbinatus suggestion as it is considered violent imagery; the "effect of deployment" is the replacement for this.

rate of change should be added! ty!!!

Author: added mention of change rate, etc

> It's generally a good practice to keep our projects on the smaller side as this helps reduce the effect of a deployment (i.e., the micro-stacks model described earlier).

Reviewer 2: In addition, projects can be distinct inside a mono repo, and we should make that clear.

Author: ooh good point

Author: latest commit includes this, not sure if I addressed it correctly?

> As we consider making our approach even more accesible and robust across teams, we bring in the idea of [Component Resources]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components/" >}}). Component Resources group affiliated resources together according the standard practices of the organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we consider making our approach even more accesible and robust across teams, we bring in the idea of [Component Resources]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components" >}}). Component Resources group affiliated resources together according the standard practices of the organization.
```

> Back to our example, our service needs a database and a subnet (or other networking). We can template these resources by creating a component resource, which abstracts these details away from the rest of the program. So now any time someone needs to use Pulumi to add a standard application, the can just call a resource called `Application` with associated parameters (i.e., the container, parcel, folder, etc). Behind the scenes, everything is being set up according to your organization's standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Back to our example, our service needs a database and a subnet (or other networking). We can template these resources by creating a component resource, which abstracts these details away from the rest of the program. So now, any time someone needs to use Pulumi to add a standard application, they can call a resource called `Application` with associated parameters (e.g., the container, parcel, folder). Behind the scenes, everything is being set up according to your organization's standards.
```

## Examples

### Monorepo with base infrastructure project

> In practice, it's common to have a combination of approaches. Let's build an example of an organizational setup that leverages several different approaches to provide the most functionality and flexibility possible.

Reviewer 3: These two sentences kind of say the same thing.

Author: I fixed this!

We start with a central base "infrastructure" project, which contains things that are common across multiple services (or perhaps even your entire organization!). This project can include resources like Azure Resource Groups or AWS VPCs.

> Within this project, we create stacks for each unique configuration (often times stacks are related to SDLC environments like dev, staging, and production). These stacks are often deployed independently of each other and are often deployed in different regions. To use a metaphor, our Pulumi program code defines the shape of our dial, and the configuration in the different stack configuration files (e.g., `Pulumi.dev.yaml`, `Pulumi.staging.yaml`, `Pulumi.prod.yaml`) defines the actual dial setting. These "dial settings" might include things like subscription IDs, regions, etc. that are specific to that environment.

Reviewer 4: >our Pulumi program code defines the shape of our dial

Since the concept of "dial" hasn't been mentioned yet, "our dial" doesn't quite work. (My first reaction was, _Wait -- did I miss where this was mentioned?_). So maybe just:

 ```suggestion
Within this project, we create stacks for each unique configuration (often times stacks are related to SDLC environments like dev, staging, and production). These stacks are often deployed independently of each other and are often deployed in different regions. To use a metaphor, our Pulumi program code defines the shape of a dial, and the configuration in the different stack configuration files (e.g., `Pulumi.dev.yaml`, `Pulumi.staging.yaml`, `Pulumi.prod.yaml`) defines an actual dial setting. These "dial settings" might include things like subscription IDs, regions, etc. that are specific to that environment.
```

Author: that's def more clear!

This project looks a bit like this:

```
├─ infrastructure
  ├── main.go
  ├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
  ├── Pulumi.staging.yaml
  └── Pulumi.prod.yaml
```

![A diagram showing how the different stacks in a project overlay with the program](img/infra-project.jpg)

Now that we have our base infrastructure, we can create a separate Pulumi project per application or service for each one's deployment and configuration that will include all the resources that the service needs, which are not provided by the base infrastructure project.

> These projects can be part of the [same monorepo as the infrastructure project](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/organizational-patterns-infra-repo/), or they can be separate repos, depending upon your orgaizational needs. One of the advantages to keeping the infrastructure project in a separate repo/project is there is likely a limited number of users we want to be able to deploy these things; not every indvidual team needs to be able to do this. In this example, we will use a monorepo, however.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These projects can be part of the [same monorepo as the infrastructure project](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/organizational-patterns-infra-repo/), or they can be separate repos, depending upon your organizational needs. One of the advantages to keeping the infrastructure project in a separate repo/project is that there is likely a limited number of users we want to be able to deploy these things; not every individual team needs to be able to do this. In this example, we will use a monorepo, however.
```

Our example service is made up of an API and a database (RDS, CosmosDB, etc.). Our Pulumi program for the project defines the resources for the API and the database, and it can also deploy the actual code, as well. When we add our example service, our monorepo starts to look like this:

```
├── infrastructure
│   ├── main.go
│   ├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
│   ├── Pulumi.staging.yaml
│   └── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── myApp
│   ├── main.go
│   ├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
│   ├── Pulumi.staging.yaml
│   └── Pulumi.prod.yaml
└── .etc
```

It's generally a good practice to keep our projects on the smaller side as this helps reduce the effect and impact of a deployment. If you have applications that require different rates of change, it may be useful to split them up into separate repos, aka micro-stacks.

> As we consider making our approach even more accesible and robust across teams, we bring in the idea of [Component Resources]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components" >}}), which are a way to group affiliated resources together according the standard practices of the organization.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As we consider making our approach even more accessible and robust across teams, we bring in the idea of [Component Resources]({{< relref "/docs/intro/concepts/resources/components" >}}), which are a way to group affiliated resources together according the standard practices of the organization.
```

Back to our example, our service needs a database and a subnet (or other networking). We can template these resources by creating a component resource, which abstracts these details away from the rest of the program. So now, any time someone needs to use Pulumi to add a standard application, they can call a resource called `Application` with its associated parameters (e.g., the container, parcel, folder). Behind the scenes, everything is being set up according to your organization's standards.

![A diagram showing how the different stacks in a project overlay with the program](img/application-project.jpg)

These component resources can be packaged up and stored alongside all of your other package management, so consumers in your organization can access them like any other library or package. If we want to add component resources to our monorepo example, it will look like this:

```
├── infrastructure
│   ├── main.go
│   ├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
│   └── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── myApp
│   ├── main.go
│   ├── Pulumi.dev.yaml
│   ├── Pulumi.staging.yaml
│   └── Pulumi.prod.yaml
├── pkg
│   └──application
│     └── app.go
└── .etc
```

### Other examples

> See also the use of multiple projects and stacks in [Crosswalk for Kubernetes]({{< relref "/docs/guides/crosswalk/kubernetes" >}}), which contains a tutorial, reference architecture, and collection of prod-first code examples that demonstrate industry best-practices for **using Kubernetes** in contexts where an **organization of people** must ship **production applications.**

Reviewer 4: I don't _think_ we need the bold here (we rarely use it and in general only to call out choices in steps and things):

```suggestion
See also the use of multiple projects and stacks in [Crosswalk for Kubernetes]({{< relref "/docs/guides/crosswalk/kubernetes" >}}), which contains a tutorial, reference architecture, and collection of prod-first code examples that demonstrate industry best-practices for using Kubernetes in contexts where an organization of people must ship production applications.
```
